Update readme (#5398)
microsoft/kiota: vscode/microsoft-kiota/README.md

# Microsoft Kiota

Kiota is a client/plugin/manifest generator for HTTP REST APIs described by OpenAPI. The experience is available as [a command-line tool](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.OpenApi.Kiota) and as [a Visual Studio Code extension](https://aka.ms/kiota/extension).

> Kiota helps eliminate the need to take a dependency on a different API client for every API that you need to call, as well as limiting the generation to the exact API surface area you’re interested in, thanks to a filtering capability. Recently, it has also added plugin and manifest generations based on OpenAPI descriptions that can speed up the process of generating Declarative Copilots.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kiota helps eliminate the need to take a dependency on a different API client for every API that you need to call, as well as limiting the generation to the exact API surface area you’re interested in, thanks to a filtering capability. It also helps with participating in the Microsoft Copilot ecosystem by enabling generation of API plugins.
```

## Capabilities

Using kiota you can:

1. Search for API descriptions.
2. Filter and select the API endpoints you need by slicing only required endpoints from a rather bulky OpenAPI Description
3. Generate models and a chained method API surface in the language of your choice. Supported languages can be viewed at https://github.com/microsoft/kiota/tree/main?tab=readme-ov-file#supported-languages
4. Call the OpenAPI described API with the new client generated in step 3 above.

> 5. Generate validated and working plugin manifests that can be easily integrated into LLMs. **New**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Generate API plugin manifests that can be easily integrated into Microsoft Copilot. **New**
```

> 6. Generate OpenApi manifests. **New**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Generate [API manifests](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-miller-api-manifest/). **New**
```

All that in a matter of seconds.

## Microsoft Kiota extension for Visual Studio Code 

This [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) (VS Code) extension adds a rich UI for the Kiota experience. The features include all of Kiota capabilities such as search for API descriptions, filtering and generating API clients and more! 

## Kiota extension installation
1. In VS Code, navigate to `Extensions`.
<img width="482" alt="Navigate to Extensions on VS Code" src="https://github.com/microsoft/kiota/blob/865b5f9a3b6aa495f42a397714b09a08bdb99011/vscode/microsoft-kiota/images/samples/Navigate%20to%20Extensions%20on%20VS%20Code.png">

2. Search for 'kiota'
3. Click on Install.

You can also install the extension package from the [VS Code Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-graph.kiota). 

## Getting started

Once the extension is installed, you will be able to see the commands available to you.

> You can kick start the process by using the add file icons as appears below or using command pallete with the command `searchOrOpenApiDescription`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can kick start the process by using the add file icons as appears below or using command pallete with the command "Add API description"
```

Let's not use the internal names here.

<img width="482" alt="Use the add file icon" src="https://github.com/microsoft/kiota/blob/865b5f9a3b6aa495f42a397714b09a08bdb99011/vscode/microsoft-kiota/images/samples/SearchOrBrowseOptions.png">

The notification bar will also notify you of ongoing background processes e.g when searching for an api using a keyword

<img width="482" alt="vscode extension search notification" src="https://github.com/microsoft/kiota/blob/865b5f9a3b6aa495f42a397714b09a08bdb99011/vscode/microsoft-kiota/images/samples/searchingNotification.png">

<img width="482" alt="vscode extension search results" src="https://github.com/microsoft/kiota/blob/865b5f9a3b6aa495f42a397714b09a08bdb99011/vscode/microsoft-kiota/images/samples/searchResults.png">

Select the OpenAPI description you are interested in and you will be presented with the Kiota OpenAPI Explorer containing all the available endpoints 

<img width="482" alt="Kiota OpenAPI explorer" src="https://github.com/microsoft/kiota/blob/865b5f9a3b6aa495f42a397714b09a08bdb99011/vscode/microsoft-kiota/images/samples/endpointSelectionandTheGenerateIcon.png">

> Select the endpoints to include in your API client as above and click the `generate` icon. Kiota extension will display with the options to generate either client, plugin or manifest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select the endpoints to include in your API client as above and click the `generate` icon. Kiota extension will display with the options to generate either client, plugin or other.
```

> <img width="482" alt="kiota vscode generate options" src="https://github.com/microsoft/kiota/blob/865b5f9a3b6aa495f42a397714b09a08bdb99011/vscode/microsoft-kiota/images/samples/SelectGenerationOption.png">

Reviewer: Based on the @thewahome PR on the question flow, this will need to be updated.

Reviewer 2: Absolutely, this won't make it probably to GA as discussed today, so no blocker here now.

If you previously generated a client that had a lock file, kiota prompts you to migrate to using the workspace once you open the previously generated folder containing a lock file. You can choose to migrate immediately or ask to be reminded later.

<img width="482" alt="Notification to Migrate to extension's workspace" src="https://github.com/microsoft/kiota/blob/865b5f9a3b6aa495f42a397714b09a08bdb99011/vscode/microsoft-kiota/images/samples/MigratePromptOnOpeningFolder.png">

You can also access the same feature later by using the contextual option on the lock file, by right-clicking on the lock file and selecting the option to migrate.

<img width="482" alt="Contextual Migrate option on right-clicking on lockfile" src="https://github.com/microsoft/kiota/blob/865b5f9a3b6aa495f42a397714b09a08bdb99011/vscode/microsoft-kiota/images/samples/ContextualMigrateLockToWorkspace.png">

Enjoy the benefits of the workspace once the migration is complete.

## Extension Settings

> See [src/extensionSettings.ts](https://github.com/microsoft/kiota/blob/865b5f9a3b6aa495f42a397714b09a08bdb99011/vscode/microsoft-kiota/src/extensionSettings.ts) file

Reviewer: Let's not send our users to a source file with the settings. We should have a doc on this in aka.ms/kiota/docs. For now, can we use this README to just invite users to navigate to the settings and type "Kiota" to see all appropriate settings?

## Contributions
There are many ways in which you can participate in the project, for example:

- [Download our latest builds](https://github.com/microsoft/kiota/releases).
- [Submit bugs and feature requests](https://github.com/microsoft/kiota/issues), and help us verify as they are checked in
- Review [source code changes](https://github.com/microsoft/kiota/pulls)
- Review the [documentation](https://github.com/microsoft/kiota/blob/main/vscode/microsoft-kiota/README.md) and make pull requests for anything from typos to new content

See our contributions guidelines in the [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/microsoft/kiota/blob/main/vscode/microsoft-kiota/CONTRIBUTING.md) page for more information.
Further guidelines are also available in the page [SUPPORT.md](https://github.com/microsoft/kiota/blob/main/SUPPORT.md)

## Reporting security issues
Check out our [SECURITY.md](https://github.com/microsoft/kiota/blob/main/SECURITY.md) page for details.

## Telemetry

> Kiota Core and Kiota extension collects usage data and sends it to Microsoft to help improve our products and services. Read our [Privacy Statement](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=521839) and [Data Collection Notice](https://docs.opensource.microsoft.com/content/releasing/telemetry.html) to learn more. Learn more in our [FAQ](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/supporting/faq#_how-to-disable-telemetry-reporting).

Reviewer: Kiota core doesn't not collect any data.

Select the OpenAPI description you are interested in and you will be presented with the Kiota OpenAPI Explorer containing all the available endpoints 

<img width="482" alt="Kiota OpenAPI explorer" src="https://github.com/microsoft/kiota/blob/865b5f9a3b6aa495f42a397714b09a08bdb99011/vscode/microsoft-kiota/images/samples/endpointSelectionandTheGenerateIcon.png">

Select the endpoints to include in your API client as above and click the `generate` icon. Kiota extension will display with the options to generate either client, plugin or other.

<img width="482" alt="kiota vscode generate options" src="https://github.com/microsoft/kiota/blob/865b5f9a3b6aa495f42a397714b09a08bdb99011/vscode/microsoft-kiota/images/samples/SelectGenerationOption.png">

Finally, the notification bar at the bottom right will display "Generation Completed Successfully" once the generation is done. Click on your vscode file explorer to see the generated outputs in the current workspace if default selection was your output directory choice or navigate to selected folder to see the output.

## Migrating from older use of lock file to a workspace.json

> Latest Kiota extension has been improved to using a workspace instead of a lock file to facilitate having multiple clients, plugins, or manifests within the same workspace. The workspace.json file also provides an opportunity to edit, or regenerate the outputs conveniently.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The latest version of the Kiota extension has been improved to using a workspace instead of a lock file to facilitate having multiple clients, plugins, or manifests within the same workspace. The workspace.json file also provides an opportunity to edit, or regenerate the outputs conveniently.
```
